>> Jerome Hardaway: So today,
we are going over preparing for
the software engineering job volume 3.
And this one,
we're definitely taking all of
the current information that's out there.
We're focusing on the data that we have,
data I've gotten from
teaching my veterans.
And we are applying that so
you can understand the practical and
tactical of what we need to be doing to
prepare for today's current job market.
Hey y'all, I'm Jerome right there,
I'm your host for today, your educator.
I'm the founder of Vetsu Code,
I'm actually celebrating my 10th
year today in teaching veterans.
I've taught over 300 veterans in software
engineering and helped them all get jobs,
so I've I put about $20 million
in the US economy in jobs.
I'm a software engineer in Microsoft,
and I'm a fractional CTO at MyRuck AI
where I focus on helping with HR,
and artificial intelligence.
What makes me the person
to teach this course,
the most qualified,
one I am obsessive about this subject.
You'll never ever see me arguing
about what version of app router or
page router should be used.
But you'll always see me talking
about what needs to be done for
you to get the goal of being able to
put food on table for your family.
When I left the military
after the great recession and
I was told that I didn't have skills for
the modern society.
I had to learn how,
I taught myself how to code, and
that is how I transition
into material in the sector.
And having the idea of being in air
conditioning, the amount of people able to
yell at me down to four, and
people want to kick my butt, down to zero.
I was like, I am never leaving this place.
And I've been here since 2010,
2011 I have not left yet.
So, that's one piece I know exactly how
it feels trying to break into tech.
I know how it feels to go through
all these ups and downs of tech,
I started when FTP was a big deal.
And then when we shifted from FTP to AWS,
and then I was here
when Node.js or the Node engine
from Chrome made its debut.
And then we started having react,
all the things.
I survived the JavaScript wars,
where there was a new JavaScript
framework dropping every five minutes.
I remember those were
some exhaustive days.
I don't know if you survived it,
but having to figure out if you
don't even know Ember or Angular,
there was Angular.js and
Angular without the js and react and okay.
How do I make sure that,
I tailor my resumes for
this one, and
now in the era of AI and post COVID,
I am still here,
still helping people get jobs.
As recently as two months ago,
my last W and I am here to help you get,
make sure that you are you
continue to win in this market,
particularly in a market
as volatile as this.
Now we're talking about the market,
let's just be honest.
Right now, this market in this year,
in this season, is extremely volatile.
All the top companies are trying
to flatten their head count with
middle management,
while also with artificial intelligence
they are trying to up their
productivity of their mid.
And seniors while not
focusing on hiring juniors,
which is a mistake, but
that is right now the game plan.
And we have to see how these
are impacting the market,
it's harder for juniors to even
get their foot in the door.
People who have been at jobs five,
ten years suddenly being let off and they
don't even have the experience of having
to go through the job market process.
The last time they applied for a job,
it was AWS just came out, right?
So, we're in this very
weird state where people
don't know what's going on,
what's up or down.
And just it feels like unmitigated chaos,
but there's a method to the madness.
I call it market math,
how people are doing it,
try to figure out how to make their
teens more lean, more productive.
Utilizing artificial intelligence while
keeping the people they feel like
will adapt faster to those technologies
and still grow within a company.
But yeah, remember, all these challenges
are just opportunities, right?
If I hadn't taken the challenge of picking
up a random book on Databases in 2011.
I wanna be here today at 2024
talking to y'all about code.
That is crazy when you
think about the type of
chances that you take with
opportunities in chaos.
So let's not focus on the negative of
this, we approach the world the way it is,
but we focus on making the world
the way we want it to be, and
that's what we're gonna do
to achieve our goals, right?
So we're gonna focus on navigating and
winning in this environment.
This is one question I get
asked by juniors every day.
This is my official stance
on leveraging using AI.
Artificial intelligence is an integral
part of the hiring process, therefore,
it should be an integral part of your
education and getting hired process.
You have to learn how to use
the tools that are gonna be used in
the market against you,
for you, and with you.
There is no way around it that is
the equivalent of coming in front
end masters saying you gonna learn
react but refusing to learn TypeScript.
No one enterprise market does react
without TypeScript these days.
So you're hurting yourself when you opt
out of not learning the new technologies
that are required for you to learn, right?
So, whether going lower level or
even going to bigger level to understand
like what these models do and how to
understand them how to code with them,
especially in the era of cost efficiency.
That's gonna be a very big thing,
especially for JavaScript engineers to be
able to leverage because people don't
understand how expensive this stuff is.
So definitely go out there,
learn how to use this stuff,
learn how to build with this stuff.
Start learning how to use it now,
that's what I want to put out there.